Add SDK Manager and updated CUDA install options (#547)
rapidsai/docs: install/index.md

- [Conda](#conda)
- [Docker](#docker)
- [pip](#pip)
- [SDK Manager](#sdkm)
- [Within WSL2](#wsl2)
  - [SDK Manager](#wsl2-sdkm)
  - [Conda](#wsl2-conda)
  - [Docker](#wsl2-docker)

>   - [pip](#wsl2-pip)

Reviewer: I still think we should reorder this.

>   - [pip](#wsl2-pip)

Reviewer 2: @taureandyernv could you please include this change?

It also lines up with the outline above it and the actual layout in the text below

>   - [pip](#wsl2-pip)

Reviewer: @taureandyernv let me know that @aravenel wants this at the top. I will defer to that decision.

>   - [pip](#wsl2-pip)

Reviewer 2: To better understand, met with Taurean and Alex today

From that meeting, Taurean clarified that Windows users are primarily looking for a GUI installer, which this meets. Hence promoting this first for the Windows case

The Linux use case is intended to remain the same

Now with a better understanding, agree this is reasonable

- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.8](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-8-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 520.61.05 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-0-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 525.60.13 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.2](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-2-2-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 535.86.10 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**

> - <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-5-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 535.86.10 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-5-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 555.42.02 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**
```

Driver version from this table: https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/archive/12.5.0/cuda-toolkit-release-notes/index.html#cuda-toolkit-major-component-versions

Author: Thanks for that catch

> - <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-0-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 525.60.13 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**
> - <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.2](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-2-2-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 535.86.10 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**
> - <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-5-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 555.42.02 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**

Reviewer: We can probably drop these notes now.
```suggestion
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-0-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 525.60.13 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.2](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-2-2-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 535.86.10 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-5-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 555.42.02 or newer
```

Author: true dat!

 **Note**: RAPIDS is tested with and officially supports the versions listed above. Newer CUDA and driver versions may also work with RAPIDS. See [CUDA compatibility](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/index.html) for details.

> ## **CUDA 12 Support**

Reviewer: We should drop the "12" here. This section already covers both CUDA 11 and CUDA 12.
```suggestion
## **CUDA Support**
```

Author: agreed, and will agree with the other changes.

### **Docker and Conda**

> - <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> Stable CUDA 12 conda packages and Docker images currently support CUDA 12.0 and 12.5.

Reviewer: Our support for conda is not just two minor versions - we support 12.0-12.5 through CEC. We test 12.0, 12.2, and 12.5 but we know RAPIDS also works with other minor versions (because of requirements imposed by PyTorch and other libraries). This has been refined in a few places but I suppose these docs haven't been fixed yet.

We might also separate this so that Docker and conda aren't together. We only produce Docker images for specific minor versions but conda's support is broader.
```suggestion
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> Stable conda packages support CUDA 11.4-11.8 and 12.0-12.5. Docker images currently support CUDA 11.8, 12.0, and 12.5.
```

Several services also offer **free and limited** trials with GPU resources:
- [Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab](https://studiolab.sagemaker.aws/)

> - [Google CoLab w/ pip](https://nvda.ws/3XEO6hK)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Google Colab w/ pip](https://nvda.ws/3XEO6hK)
```

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** x86_64 wheels require glibc >= 2.17. <br/>
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** ARM architecture (aarch64) wheels require glibc >= 2.32 (only ARM Server Base System Architecture is supported).

<br/>
<div id="sdkm"></div>

### **SDK Manager (Ubuntu Only)**

> [NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager) gives a users a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS.  It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS, making it ideal for new Linux users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NVIDIA SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager) gives a users a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS.  It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS, making it ideal for new Linux users.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[NVIDIA SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager) provides a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS.  It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS, making it ideal for new Linux users.
```

And while we're here, "gives a users a" is not grammatically correct.

> 1. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  It is assumed that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If not, please move `sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb` file to your current Download folder.

Reviewer: Why does it matter if this is in your `Downloads` folder? We should not have to dictate where users download files, so long as they are accessible.

Author: This is very true.  However, I was attempting to simplify the instructions and levelset where most Windows users would have their downloads files.  Thoughts on a different easy way to allow for these users to find the `.deb` file and then use it for the `sudo apt install`?  Remember that some of these users aren't adept with CLI commands from either Windows or Ubuntu.

Reviewer: I think the specificity here is actually harmful. I would keep it short. "Download the `.deb` file and navigate to that directory in the WSL terminal."

Author: changed in the latest commit

2. Install and run SDK Manager [using the installation guide here](https://docs.nvidia.com/sdk-manager/download-run-sdkm/index.html){: target="_blank"}.  For example, in Ubuntu, the code will look like: 

> ```sudo apt install ./sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb

Reviewer: We need to start the code block with a recognized language (`bash`).
```suggestion
```bash
sudo apt install ./sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb
```

sdkmanager
```

> 3. Sign in when asked, and [follow SDK Manager's RAPIDS installation instructions here](https://docs.nvidia.com/sdk-manager/install-with-sdkm-rapids/index.html){: target="_blank"}.

Reviewer: Link just the specific name of the page.
```suggestion
3. Sign in when asked, and follow SDK Manager's [RAPIDS installation instructions](https://docs.nvidia.com/sdk-manager/install-with-sdkm-rapids/index.html){: target="_blank"}.
```

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** x86_64 wheels require glibc >= 2.17. <br/>
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** ARM architecture (aarch64) wheels require glibc >= 2.32 (only ARM Server Base System Architecture is supported).

<br/>
<div id="sdkm"></div>

> ### **SDK Manager (Ubuntu Only)**

Reviewer: Use the same level of heading as the other installation methods.
```suggestion
## **SDK Manager (Ubuntu Only)**
```

[NVIDIA SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager) gives a users a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS.  It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS, making it ideal for new Linux users.
1. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  It is assumed that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If not, please move `sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb` file to your current Download folder.

> 2. Install and run SDK Manager [using the installation guide here](https://docs.nvidia.com/sdk-manager/download-run-sdkm/index.html){: target="_blank"}.  For example, in Ubuntu, the code will look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install and run SDK Manager [using the installation guide here](https://docs.nvidia.com/sdk-manager/download-run-sdkm/index.html){: target="_blank"}. For Ubuntu, the commands are:
```

<i class="fas fa-info-circle text-white"></i> When installing with Docker Desktop, if the container pull command is successful, but the run command hangs indefinitely, [ensure you're on Docker Desktop >= 4.18](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/release-notes/){: target="_blank"}.

<br/>
<div id="wsl2-sdkm"></div>

> ### **WSL2 SDK Manager Install (Preferred Method)**

Reviewer: Move this below conda, Docker, and pip. We should not claim that this is a "preferred" method.
```suggestion
### **WSL2 SDK Manager Install**
```

Author: i'll keep it above, but will remove preferred

> [NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} gives a Windows user a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS.  It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS without any Linux knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} gives a Windows user a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS. It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS without any Linux knowledge.
```

2. Install the [latest NVIDIA Drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx){: target="_blank"} on the Windows host.
3. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  It is assumed that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If not, please move `sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb` file to your current Download folder.
4. Open PowerShell command line or Windows terminal, run `wsl --install -d Ubuntu-22.04`.  This will install and start Ubuntu in your Windows host system using WSL2.  Make your **sudo** password memorable as you will need it in the next two steps.
5. Install and run SDK Manager using  inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in windows (if you don't know it, open powershell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter)
```sudo apt update && sudo apt install wslu -y

> sudo apt install /mnt/c/Users/[YOUR HOME DIRECTORY ON WINDOWS]/Downloads/sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb

Reviewer: We should have the users fetch the `.deb` file with `wget` instead of navigating the mounted Windows drive. This adds unnecessary complexity.

Can we provide a one or two line install that is easily copy-pasted? For example, miniforge has:
```
curl -L -O "https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-$(uname)-$(uname -m).sh"
bash Miniforge3-$(uname)-$(uname -m).sh
```

Author: they aren't able to fetch the `.deb` file, as it requires authentication.  I'd have also rathered that :).  Also, one of the goals of this complete solution is to use the least amount of CLI and the most of the GUI for our Windows users.

1. In Windows, install or update WSL2 [using Microsoft's instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install){: target="_blank"}.
2. Install the [latest NVIDIA Drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx){: target="_blank"} on the Windows host.
3. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  It is assumed that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If not, please move `sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb` file to your current Download folder.
4. Open PowerShell command line or Windows terminal, run `wsl --install -d Ubuntu-22.04`.  This will install and start Ubuntu in your Windows host system using WSL2.  Make your **sudo** password memorable as you will need it in the next two steps.

> 5. Install and run SDK Manager using  inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in windows (if you don't know it, open powershell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Install and run SDK Manager using inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in windows (if you don't know it, open PowerShell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter)
```

<br/>
<div id="wsl2-sdkm"></div>

### **WSL2 SDK Manager Install**
[NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} gives a Windows user a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS. It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS without any Linux knowledge.
1. In Windows, install or update WSL2 [using Microsoft's instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install){: target="_blank"}.
2. Install the [latest NVIDIA Drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx){: target="_blank"} on the Windows host.
3. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  It is assumed that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If not, please move `sdkmanager_[version]-[build#]_amd64.deb` file to your current Download folder.

> 4. Open PowerShell command line or Windows terminal, run: 

Reviewer: We should already have WSL installed from following the instructions linked in Step 1. Please remove this step.

Author: resolved in latest commits

<i class="fas fa-info-circle text-white"></i> When installing with Docker Desktop, if the container pull command is successful, but the run command hangs indefinitely, [ensure you're on Docker Desktop >= 4.18](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/release-notes/){: target="_blank"}.

<br/>
<div id="wsl2-sdkm"></div>

### **WSL2 SDK Manager Install**

> [NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} gives a Windows user a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS. It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS without any Linux knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NVIDIA's SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} gives Windows users a Graphical User Interface (GUI) option to install RAPIDS. It also attempts to fix any environment issues before installing RAPIDS or updating RAPIDS, making it ideal for new WSL users.
```

> 1. Install the [latest NVIDIA Drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx){: target="_blank"} on the Windows host.

Reviewer: This link redirects. Let's use the redirect.
```suggestion
1. Install the [latest NVIDIA Drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/){: target="_blank"} on the Windows host.
```

2. Download [SDK Manager's Ubuntu version from their website](https://developer.nvidia.com/sdk-manager){: target="_blank"} (requires sign up or login to NVIDIA's Developer community).  Do not install yet.  The rest of the instructions assume that your home directory's `Downloads` folder is where the `.deb` file will be stored.  If this is not the case, please change the directory, as needed, for your system.

> 3. Install or update WSL2 and the Ubuntu 22.04 or Ubuntu 24.04 package [using Microsoft's instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install){: target="_blank"}.  If you are comfortable, you can use Windows PowerShell.  Example: to use PowerShell to install Ubuntu 24.04, type:

Reviewer: Simplify this sentence. This also works from `cmd`, not just PowerShell.
```suggestion
3. Install or update WSL2 and the Ubuntu 22.04 or Ubuntu 24.04 package [using Microsoft's instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install){: target="_blank"}.  If you wish to install Ubuntu 24.04 from the command line, use this command:
```

```bash
wsl --install -d Ubuntu-24.04
```
This will install and start Ubuntu in your Windows host system using WSL2.  Make your **sudo** password memorable as you will need it in the next two steps.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra newline.
```suggestion
```

> 4. Install and run SDK Manager inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  This command will navigate to your Windows users's `Downloads` folder, from your WSL2 instance, and install the latest SDK Manager `.deb` file that you had downloaded. You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu.  

Reviewer 2: Looks like the pre-commit CI failure is do to some trailing blank spaces here

```suggestion
4. Install and run SDK Manager inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  This command will navigate to your Windows users's `Downloads` folder, from your WSL2 instance, and install the latest SDK Manager `.deb` file that you had downloaded. You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu.
```

> 4. Install and run SDK Manager inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in Windows (if you don't know it, open PowerShell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter).

Reviewer: Instructions like this are difficult for users. We ask them to "paste" but this command is not paste-able because it has placeholders like `[YOUR HOME DIRECTORY ON WINDOWS]`.

Reviewer: Also the `$HOME` directory you get from PowerShell isn't the same format as what the user needs for the Ubuntu WSL mount. The user has to recognize how to navigate this discrepancy.

What if we proposed something like:
```bash
cd "$(wslpath -au $(cmd.exe /c 'echo %USERPROFILE%' 2>/dev/null))/Downloads"
```

For me, this navigates directly to `/mnt/c/Users/bdice/Downloads`.

Reviewer: @taureandyernv had some trouble making this work. Taurean, can you please share the output you got here for posterity?

> 4. Install and run SDK Manager using inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in windows (if you don't know it, open PowerShell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter).  There will be a lot of activity, which you can review.  This is normal for installing packages on Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Install and run SDK Manager inside Ubuntu by pasting this into your command line.  You will have to enter the sudo password you created when you installed Ubuntu and also change folder location to match your home directory in Windows (if you don't know it, open PowerShell, type `$HOME`, and hit enter).
```
